# Testing-of-Machine-Learning-Algorithms-for-Lithology-Prediction-from-Well-Log-Data-of-Central-Italy
Testing of Machine Learning Algorithms for Lithology Prediction from Well Log Data of Central Italy
ABSTRACT
A novel supervised machine learning prediction methodology, associated with a standard well-log data representation, is proposed in this work. Supervised-learning algorithms are supplied with training data to learn the relationships between the measurements and classes at which they are assigned. The data sources for this study are represented by well-log data of three wells located to Umbria and Marche regions (central Italy), which have been previously investigated and have litho-facies classes assigned based on stratigraphic and logging data interpretation. The data cover a well-known stratigraphic sequence from Triassic to Pliocene, involving different types of rocks such as evaporites, carbonate and siliciclastic rocks.
The proposed workflow aims at testing and comparing machine learning algorithms using well-log data and evaluating the opportunity for using machine learning in the field of petrophysics.
At first statistical analysis of the data was performed before to apply machine learning approach. The results of this analysis show the variance distribution of well-data in the histogram and Pari-plots; the data was analysed to perform Standardization (scaling) in order to fit the data into the algorithm for the training phase.
A set of three combined well-data are used for training and testing the algorithms; four types of algorithms have been used to train a supervised algorithm in order to learn relationships of the data. In particular, the data were subdivided as 70% for training and 30% for testing. The predictions obtained by algorithms shows Radom forset has the highest accuracy among the support vector machine (SVM) – gamma, k-nearest neighbours (KNN) and support vector machine (SVM) – linear algorithms. The evaluation results are compared using Confusion Matrix, a graph log comparing with actual predictions vs predicted lithology, allowing which algorithm performed a better evaluation for predictions.
The results of this work suggest that the machine learning techniques, more and more frequently used in these last years, are particularly useful for handling and managing massive data as well log data, promoting the speed of data elaboration and to quantify the results.

Keywords: well log interpretations, Machine Learning algorithms, Confusion matrix, Lithology Prediction, Data visualization, Python
